---
layout: post
title:  "Soft Adversarial Training Can Retain Natural Accuracy"
description: Congratulations! Abhijit for the position paper accepted @ ICAART 2022
date:   "2022-01-25"
---

Congratulations! Abhijit for the position paper accepted @ ICAART 2022

## Soft Adversarial Training Can Retain Natural Accuracy
*Abstract*
Adversarial training for neural networks has been in the limelight in recent years. The advancement in neural
network architectures over the last decade has led to significant improvement in their performance. It sparked
an interest in their deployment for real-time applications. This process initiated the need to understand the
vulnerability of these models to adversarial attacks. It is instrumental in designing models that are robust
against adversaries. Recent works have proposed novel techniques to counter the adversaries, most often
sacrificing natural accuracy. Most suggest training with an adversarial version of the inputs, constantly moving
away from the original distribution. The focus of our work is to use abstract certification to extract a subset
of inputs for (hence we call it ’soft’) adversarial training. We propose a training framework that can retain
natural accuracy without sacrificing robustness in a constrained setting. Our framework specifically targets
moderately critical applications which require a reasonable balance between robustness and accuracy. The
results testify to the idea of soft adversarial training for the defense against adversarial attacks. At last, we
propose the scope of future work for further improvement of this framework.
