---
layout: post
title:  "MINTS Accepted at QRS 2021"
description: Congratulations! Pradeep for the paper accepted @ QRS 2021
date:   "2021-10-26"
---

Congratulations! Pradeep for the paper accepted @ QRS 2021

## Pradeep 
## MINTS: Unsupervised Temporal Specifications Miner
*Abstract*
Specifications for software systems are quite often missing or are obsolete given the evolutionary nature of these systems. Lack of precise software specifications makes the task of debugging and detecting a malfunction of system behavior challenging. Moreover, the absence of well-defined specifications for software used in safety-critical systems inhibits the deployment of such software in practice with fear of the catastrophic outcome. Prior works have primarily focused on extracting system specifications in the form of template-based mining frameworks or interactive simulation models. In safety-critical systems where the time of occurrence of events is of prime importance extracting specifications with a quantitative notion of time seems a daunting task.

This work presents an unsupervised approach to mine timed temporal properties in the form of deterministic finite state machines with a custom-designed trie data structure. Our framework, MINTS learns dominant system specification from their system traces, in the form of a timed trie, that is subsequently pruned and represented as a timed deterministic finite state machine. MINTS is shown to be sound and complete. MINTS scalability and correctness is validated using real-world industry strength traces.
